they hunt in silence the hand sign
indicates that one of them has found the
track of a group of kudu these are the
sand people of the Kalahari Desert the
last tribe on earth to use what some
believe is the most ancient hunting
technique of all the persistence hunt
they run down their prey
they start to feel the rhythm of the
animals movements from the spacing of
the tracks the loop is not moving fast
the animals have taken fright they will
concentrate on the ball he will be
carrying a heavy set of horns and
therefore will tire more quickly to do
that they must separate him from the
herd so that his tracks won't be
confused by those of others
the Sun is directly overhead and the men
sense a change in the Kudus pace is
slowing
after hours of tracking they've entered
an almost trance-like state of
concentration at times it's impossible
to see any sign of the Cudas tracks and
the hunters must imagine the path it
will have taken the heat is hard on
hunters but they're now close enough for
the next stage in the hunt the chase
this is a signal for it to begin
but only one man will undertake it kuroh
a the runner
he must be relentless
it's now a test of endurance who will
collapse first the man or the aminal
this was how men hunted before they had
weapons when a hunter had nothing more
than his own physical endurance with
which to gain his prize running on two
feet is more efficient over long
distances than running on form
a man sweats from dan's all over his
body
and so calls himself a kudu sweats much
less and has to find shade if it's to
cool down and the man has hands with
which to carry water so during the chase
he can replenish the liquid he loses as
sweat
hours pass and koroa is getting closer
but then the kudu runs into thick cover
the tracks have disappeared caraway
tries to put himself into the mind of
the kudu and himself re-enacts the
moment when it heard him approaching as
it tried to rest in the shade he deduces
the direction in which it must have fled
it's close by
the chase has lasted eight hours hunter
and hunted are both at the end of their
strength
neither can go on much longer and then
the kudu collapses from sheer exhaustion
it's close to death
kuroh is spear throw now is scarcely
more than a symbolic gesture
the hunter pays tribute to his quarries
courage and strength with ceremonial
gestures that ensure that its spirit
returns to the desert sands from which
it came
while it was alive he lived and breathed
with it and felt its every movement in
his own body
and at the moment of its death he shared
his pain
he rubs its saliva into his own legs to
relieve the agony of his burning muscles
and he gives thanks for the life he has
taken so that he may sustain the lives
of his family waiting for him back in
their settlement